---
title: Python environments with pyenv and poetry
slug: python-environments-with-pyenv-and-poetry
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: Doubtless, python is one of the most widely used programming languages today, according to the 2022 stack overflow developer survey.  Of 71,467 responses compiled from coders around the world, 68% have admitted that they love and are planning to continue working with Python, and approximately 12.000 of those who haven't got the chance to work with it yet have expressed their interest in starting developing with it.
authors: [haruiz]
tags: [python, data-science]
---

import TermynalReact from "@site/src/components/Termynal";
import TOCInline from '@theme/TOCInline';

<!--truncate-->

[//]: # (:::note)

[//]: # (**In this post you will learn:**)

[//]: # (<TOCInline toc={toc} />)

[//]: # (:::)


### Why Python is so popular?

Doubtless, python is one of the most widely used programming languages today, according to the 2022 stack overflow developer survey.  Of 71,467 responses compiled from coders around the world, 68% have admitted that they love and are planning to continue working with Python, and approximately 12.000 of those who haven't got the chance to work with it yet have expressed their interest in starting developing with it. its popularity is mainly due to the fact that it is a high-level, object-oriented language, and it is easy to learn.

All good, but why Python is so popular?, well, a few reasons to mention would be: 

1. Due to its simplicity in syntax and expressiveness, Python is considered easy to learn in comparison with others programming languages. Even if you are not a programmer, you can easily read and interpret the code written in Python.
2. Python is used by many companies and organizations, such as Google, Facebook, and IBM.  It is a popular language for many developers and data scientists.
3. It has a hugely supportive and active open source community.
4. Because of its versatility. We can use Python to develop any kind of software, from web applications to scientific computing.

### How to run and manage multiple python versions in the same machine using pyenv?

Doubtless, python is one of the most widely used programming languages today, according to the 2022 stack overflow developer survey.  Of 71,467 responses compiled from coders around the world, 68% have admitted that they love and are planning to continue working with Python, and approximately 12.000 of those who haven't got the chance to work with it yet have expressed their interest in starting developing with it. its popularity is mainly due to the fact that it is a high-level, object-oriented language, and it is easy to learn.

On top of that, Python has `PyPI package index,` a python package repository, where you can find many useful packages to use in your projects (Machine Learning, data science, game development, Web development, etc.) and share yours with the community. It has a great ecosystem that keeps growing fast, and big companies like Google, Facebook, and IBM contribute by adding new packages. 

However, if you have been using Python for a while, you may have already noticed that handling different python-installations and dependencies(packages) can be a nightmare!.

:::info
The Python Package Index, abbreviated as PyPI (/ˌpaɪpiˈaɪ/) and also known as the Cheese Shop (a reference to the Monty Python's Flying Circus sketch "Cheese Shop"), is the official third-party software repository for Python. It is analogous to the CPAN repository for Perl and to the CRAN repository for R. PyPI is run by the Python Software Foundation, a charity. Some package managers, including pip, use PyPI as the default source for packages and their dependencies.
:::

 


[//]: # (A python package is a collection of modules. Modules that are related to each other are mainly put in the same package. When a module from an external package is required in a program, that package can be imported and its modules can be put to use.)

### How to create isolated python environments to organize our project dependencies using poetry?

### How poetry and pyenv are integrated with the most popular code editors (IDE)? 

### Why to use pyenv and poetry over others alternatives such as anaconda?


[//]: # (A package manager is a software tool that automates the process of installing, upgrading, configuring, and removing computer programs/libraries from our machines. For python specifically, we have different alternatives, such as conda, virtualenv, pip, etc. <!--truncate--> The video below provides us more information about these kind of tools, and highlight the aspects that we should consider when choosing the most appropriate:)

[//]: # (<p align="center">)

[//]: # (<iframe width="100%" height="400px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3J02sec99RM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>)

[//]: # (</p>)

[//]: # (In particular, this blog post will show how to use poetry, an open-source packaging-dependency management tool that gives us all we need to create, build, and publish our python applications.)

[//]: # (So lets started!!.)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (First, we need to install pyenv, a command-line tool that enables us to run multiple python versions in our development machines. It is extremely useful since sometimes we need to check if there are any compatibility issues across different versions. If you come from a javascript background, pyenv is quite similar to NVM&#40; Node version manager&#41;. I will explain how to do this in Ubuntu, but you can find the instruction for windows in the Github repository. In general, this process is straight-forward:)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Run the install command:)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # ([//]: # &#40;```bash&#41;)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # ([//]: # &#40;curl https://pyenv.run | bash&#41;)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # ([//]: # &#40;```&#41;)
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (<TermynalReact lines ={{)

[//]: # (lineData: [)

[//]: # ({ type: 'input', value: 'curl https://pyenv.run | bash' })

[//]: # (]}})

[//]: # (style={{)

[//]: # (minHeight: 100,)

[//]: # (marginTop: 20,)

[//]: # (marginBottom: 20)

[//]: # (}})

[//]: # (/>)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Then, restart your shell, so the path changes take effect:)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (```bash)

[//]: # (exec $SHELL)

[//]: # (```)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (You can now start using pyenv.)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (install python 2.7, 3.8 and 3.7 in the same machine:)

[//]: # (```bash)

[//]: # (pyenv install 2.7.15 3.8.0 3.7.0)

[//]: # (```)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Activate Python 2.7 on the current folder)

[//]: # (```bash)

[//]: # (pyenv local 2.7.15)

[//]: # (```)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Another essential aspect of the development process is the scaffolding. Sometimes, it is tricky to determine the best folder structure for our projects. Here it’s where poetry comes to the rescue. With a few commands, we can create our project, install and remove dependencies, and perform other actions such as building and packaging our software. For create our new projects, we just execute the next command in the terminal:)

[//]: # (```bash)

[//]: # (poetry new mypackage)

[//]: # (```)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Then we install the initial dependencies and set up our project using the pyenv environment previously activated:)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (```bash)

[//]: # (poetry install)

[//]: # (```)

[//]: # (:::tip)

[//]: # (Building our project and publishing it is just running the ```poetry build``` and ```poetry publish``` commands, so it is pretty intuitive. The publish command will submit our application to pip, so other developers can easily install it.)

[//]: # (:::)

[//]: # (**Some useful resource**)

[//]: # (- [Poetry Documentation]&#40;https://python-poetry.org/&#41;)

[//]: # (- [Pyenv Documentation]&#40;https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv&#41;)

[//]: # (- [Great talk about poetry]&#40;https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QX_Nhu1zhlg&ab_channel=PyGotham2019&#41;)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (If you enjoyed this post, I’d be very grateful if you’d help it spread by emailing it to a friend, or sharing it on Twitter or Facebook.)

[//]: # (Thank you!)
